---
description: A cmd.exe AutoRun registry entry that ran chcp 65001 produced unexpected output that silently broke Node.js and other tools relying on stdout parsing.
tagLinks:
  - "[migrated-from-wordpress](<../Tags/migrated-from-wordpress.md>)"
  - "[windows](<../Tags/windows.md>)"
  - "[cmd](<../Tags/cmd.md>)"
  - "[nodejs](<../Tags/nodejs.md>)"
  - "[debugging](<../Tags/debugging.md>)"
  - "[registry](<../Tags/registry.md>)"
pubDatetime: 2019-10-15T00:00:00-07:00
created: 2026-04-10T08:03:36-06:00
updated: 2026-04-10T18:33:59-06:00
title: "cmd.exe AutoRun feature = evil feature"
url:
  - https://mnaoumov.wordpress.com/2019/10/15/cmd-exe-autorun-feature-evil-feature/
disabled rules:
  - yaml-title
---

# 2019-10-15 cmd.exe AutoRun feature = evil feature

Hi folks

Today I was debugging some issues for hours. Some command-line tools from Node.JS, or C++ compiler just complained with weird errors such as **File does not exist** when the file clearly existed. I was pulling my hair off and then eventually I found it!

**cmd.exe** has an AutoRun feature. You can add some command to **HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\Software\Microsoft\Command Processor\AutoRun** or **HKEY_CURRENT_USER\Software\Microsoft\Command Processor\AutoRun** which will be executed any time

I found that I put the following script in that AutoRun setting **chcp 65001** . I was trying to do that to fix Unicode characters output in the console. It did not work but I forgot to remove that AutoRun script.

The problem with that script, is that it outputs extra line **Active code page: 65001** on every **cmd.exe** start

Because of that extra lines, all the scripts that rely on parsing scripts output might fail in a weird way.

For example, one of the issues I was encountering [https://github.com/desktop/desktop/issues/8454](https://github.com/desktop/desktop/issues/8454)

So if you need to add some script to AutoRun you have to ensure it doesn't produce any output.

I would think about something like **mycoolcommand 1>NUL 2>NUL & SET ERRORLEVEL=0**

So this will ensure we did not put anything in stdout, stderr and did not return any bad exit codes

Stay tuned
